Blender PKG Add-On for Midnight Club Street Racing
Version 1.03
April 22nd 2026

Originally created by Dummiesman (edited by Planet Xtreme)

Requirements
  Download + Install Blender 5.0+ (tested in 5.1)
  Download io_scene_pkg as zip
  Either:
    unzip file and place in AppData\Roaming\Blender Foundation\Blender\5.1\scripts\addons\pkgimporter
  or:
    install zip file via Blender -> Edit -> Preferences -> Add-ons -> Install from Disk... -> select zip

Importing
  Textures
    Textures with the format BMP,TGA,TEX will be imported when importing .pkg files

  MTX Files
    MTX files will automatically be imported if found

  Geometry Flags
    Because geometry flags are done via geometry, and not via material. These are NOT imported.

Exporting
  Reflections
    To change the "Shininess" of a material, change the "Roughness" or "Specular -> IOR Level"  property, and select apropriate settings when exporting.

  Geometry Flags
    Using the Emissive material type will export any geometry with that material as shadeless in-game

  Materials Extra
    If you want a solid color material, use a Principled BSDF and set the base color. This can make texturing solid colors (like the bottom of cars) easier.

  Textures
    The exporter will try and find the texture by searching the node tree. If it can't find the texture, or it's otherwise not assigned, the material will export untextured.

  XRefs
    To define an xref, simply name an empty object "xref:xrefname". Where xrefname is the name of the PKG file to xref e.g. "sp_parkmtr_f". It does not matter if Blender adds the .001 and so on.

  Paintjobs (Variants)
    Press the N key to bring up the sidebar. You should see a tab called "Angel Tools"
    Here you can create and edit paintjobs (variants). This ONLY APPLIES to Midtown Madness, and not MCSR.
    
  MTX Files
    MTX files will be created for apropriately named objects. Import a similar vehicle to visualize naming schemes (For example, to see Siren naming schemes, import a police car).

  Transparency
    Transparency is done using Blender's Alpha Transparency node for a Principled BSDF.
    To make windows:
      Create a Principled BSDF material. If the alpha input node is a percentage and not 0.000, changing the base color of the principled BSDF will get colored windows (import the Piranha PDQ ARi [vp_crxclassc] to see an example of properly tinted windows).
    To make isCarColorable:
      Plug in a texture with an alpha channel (fully transparent can also work). For all transparent data which matches the object's UVs, in Midnight Club Street Racing that element becomes colorable. Setting the default value for isCarColorable requires editing the pnach file, though.

  Vertex Colors
    You can export vertex colors via the checkbox in the export dialog (may not work with MCSR)

Special Thanks
  RacingFreak : Providing a Midnight Club sample file leading to some new discoveries
  Deebz__ : Testing (lots of it), ideas and suggestions
  Fireboyd78 : Suggestions for code improvement
  Diatosta : Testing, ideas and suggestions
